_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "shreya chowdhary"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a socio-technical researcher and a critical techno-realist. I use interdisciplinary approaches with a critical orientation to identify how technology fits into and perpetuates existing systems of oppression and the necessary social, technical, and legal guardrails to prevent harm. My ultimate goal as a researcher and technologist is to orient computing towards the public interest.

I received a B.S. in Computing from Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering in 2022, where I researched design refusal and feminist computing with Prof. Erhardt Graeff and co-founded a student-led public interest technology club called [PInT](pint.olin.edu). After Olin, I was an intern at Microsoft Research Montreal in the Fairness, Accountability, Transparency, and Ethics (FATE) group, working with Dr. Koustuv Saha. Since then, I've been working in the tech industry as a software engineer and will be a PhD student at University of Michigan's School of Information in Fall 2023, advised by Profs. Ben Green and Nazanin Andalibi.

Commit message:

Update about and add consent paper

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "shreya chowdhary"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---
I am a socio-technical researcher and a critical techno-realist. I use interdisciplinary approaches with a critical orientation to understand how technology perpetuates existing systems of oppression and enables new kinds of oppression and identify the necessary social, technical, and legal guardrails to prevent harm. I draw heavily from fields like human-computer interaction, critical data/algorithmic studies, science and technology studies, computer-supported cooperative work, and other fields. My ultimate goal as a researcher and technologist is to orient computing towards the public interest, which I believe requires positing computing in its place and understanding how it can advance social justice and prevent it from perpetuating harm.

I received a B.S. in Computing from Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering in 2022, where I researched design refusal and feminist computing with Prof. Erhardt Graeff and co-founded a student-led public interest technology club called [PInT](pint.olin.edu). After graduation, I interned at Microsoft Research Montreal in the Fairness, Accountability, Transparency, and Ethics (FATE) group, working with Dr. Koustuv Saha to identify socio-technical interventions to better support meaningful consent to workplace wellbeing sensing technologies. Since then, I have been working in the tech industry as a software engineer.

I will be a PhD student at the University of Michigan's School of Information in Fall 2023, advised by Profs. Ben Green and Nazanin Andalibi.

Outside of academics, I enjoy reading (especially romance, memoirs and other non-fiction, fantasy, and cozy mysteries), cross-stitching, running, exploring local parks, biking, working out, and trying out new recipes -- recommendations welcome :)
